# How to do a README on GitHub

Creating one is simple. Usually, you generate it automatically when you create your repo. But the hardest part is to write it correctly. And now we all know that this is a different matter.

This guide will be short and divided into two sections:
- **the main concepts** that need to be there
- and **secondary concepts** that one can do without, but that are useful nonetheless to paint the whole picture.

## Main topics to cover

The main purpose of Github is to **showcase your work** and/or create an useful tool or application that other developpers can use. In that vein, the most important part of any README is

- Description
- Installation
- Usage

### Description

A short description of what the project is about.

- What does it try to accomplish ?
- What problem does it solve ?
- On what platform is it available ?

### Installation

Often, a project is something that one wants to download and run.
Thus, it is useful to **describe what one would need to install to be able to run the code/application**.

Sometimes, it is just the code for a web application or a desktop application.
While you may not need to install anything, it is a good idea to include what is needed to run the code in this section, so that collaborators know how to contribute to the project.

### Usage

After having installed all the necessary components to run the code, it is time to run it! How ? Well, you have to specify that.

Here is also the time to showcase your most important piece of code and how it is used.

## Secondary topics to cover

### Visuals

Posting your code is good, but putting a little preview in the form of a screenshot (or even just your application logo) is a small touch that goes a long way.
And a link to an online demo is even more stylish!

### Contributors

If a project was done in a group, but only one person saved the repo, it is useful to link to their Github profile for completeness.

### Timeline

When did you work on the project ? Was it yesterday or three years ago? The GitHub repo will certainly mention the dates but it's still more pleasant to read when a human explains that the website showcasing the grey shrimp lovers was made during the summer of 2015 during a hackathon that took place in Miribel.

### Personal situation

What were you doing? During your career as a developer,
you will probably have to work in several companies.
It is helpful to know for what company you are writing a given software or if it is a personal project.

### Small examples to illustrate

[Kedro](https://github.com/quantumblacklabs/kedro)
[SHAP](https://github.com/slundberg/shap)
[mlflow](https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow)
